# All rights reserved. (C) 2017-2019 George Georgalis <george@galis.org>


User accepts (validates) results, by metadata verification;
approprate subject matter (ks), tag list (kt), entry keyord (kk),
matrix reason (kr), hier superord (kp), motive subord (kj), like
link (kl), alignment interval (kn), permission owner (ko), meta
hash (km), directory class (kc), time interval begin and/or end
(ki, ke, kz).


Risk
5b21b812 
link superordinate drivers at the top of documentation
detail super- and subordinate intentions within the document
outline subordinate references at the end of documentation


details 
Plan

Exec

= Check
Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM)
    http://www.ofnisystems.com/services/validation/traceability-matrix/
    https://www.guru99.com/traceability-matrix.html
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traceability_matrix
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Requirements_traceability



# Documentation

Our user Guide breaks out the primary functions of the application suite,
including components of the user interface, features and how to use them.
The Guide describes what you can do with the application.
It is a design requirement, the most fundamental documentation.
A twin staging in the development.

Accept to define the goals, the guide generalizes the design.
As the application and user interface stabilize, the documentation increases detail.

The next detail is the functional plan, this is also know as the meta plan. It is
too specific to function as a user guide, yet all the terms are abstract, specific
details are missing, it works like a schema that descripes the prcess and data flows.

The specification details are then recorded as accurately as possible. Ultimatyely
these details should be scripted into a deployment automation. Initially, the specification
is recorded as a capture of the inplace configuration, or a known intended configuration.

As the guide is developed, the inner workings are defined as primitive functions, as a separate 
reference document. Likewise, a twin of configuration data is stored separately
and more specific than the primitive functions.

The primative functions (meta flows) document is the user gatekeeper to the development.
WHile also serving as development gatekeeper to the reference design plan. The gatekeeper
stops plan change ossilisatios. Since neither vague designs nor incomplete developmet should lead
the twin focus, the user experience of the guide takes precidence over the specification details
but only so much as functional primatives are aggreed upon.




A design Plan, or blueprint of the internal workings, is a narrative with illustrations,
representing detailed goals, specific algorithms, procedures and functions, within the code base.

All details in the Plan should be traceable to a specific objectives in the Guide.
When we refer to the Plan, we are actually making a comparison between the Guide and the Code.
To achieve the next step, we decide whether to update the plan or the code.
By measuring the quality of the code with respect to the user Guide, specific
development goals and achievements are in context, measureable and clear from multiple perspectives.
schema for X
Illustration:
```
Guide / Goals  ->  Plan     ->  Code
a, b, c        ->  1, 2, 3  ->  x, y, z
```

This traceability enables better change analysis and decisions. For example, it can 
1. Illustrate the impact of switching from single application, to client/server architecture.
1. Identify level of effort related to specific deign goals.
1. Identify the blast radius of a specific bug or procedure change and identify impacted components.
1. Enable housekeeping, such as identifying and purging orphan variables and procedures no longer in use.
1. Enable timely updates and enhancements by indexing procedures and variables according to context and purpose.

When we trace goals through to the plan and on to the code,
an opportunity exists to align all aspects of development management,
notably, the trajectory of efforts and a basis for quality checks, for ongoing stability.
Efforts are wasted when goals are too vague for quality checks, or the day after an objective is met, everybody moves in opposite directions.

Within the Plan, a distinction is made between the user experience (UX design) and a technical details (specification).
The detailed specification supports the UX by narrating the orchestration of methods and API to create the UX.

Since the user interface (UI) is normally matured asynchronously with the technical detail, that is also distinguished.

Here is the hierarchy of the documentation and plans:
* `./plan/guide/` - user guide
* `./plan/ui/` - user interface
* `./plan/ux/` - user experience
* `./plan/` - detail index

Graphviz Illustration: `Guide -> UX -> detail -> code -> UI` 


The plan detail should direct the code but in the course of development,
it is natural for the code to advance ahead of documentation,
leading to a code base without complementary specification
ties to the requirements (user guide)

When code deviates from a specification, best trajectories and precedence of efforts 
are difficult to identify. The interpretation of the plan is however, more forgiving than the code.
For this reason, the documentation should be updated to remain the reference plan, at all times vs code
(even if the reference plan is not comprehensive into the details).


## Style

Don't use symlinks. Create atomically directories and respective index entries.
Leverage hardlinks whenever possible. Increment, timestamp backup by local hardlinks.
Offsite (and/or near new device) duplicate backup, of timestamp links.

The file matrix.md (in any directory) should contain an index of directory content.
(a one line description of files/folders, with relative links to ./plan/ documentation)

The file schema.md (in any directory) is for ad-hoc notes and links about development plans and intended methods.

